Share Market Timings – Know Stock Market Opening & Closing Time in India
There are many basic things a trader or investor has to be aware of before beginning to invest in the share market. Investing in stocks is a very interesting thing and it is all about time. The price of a share can suddenly surge in no time and similarly the price can fall in no time. One should have a constant watch over the stocks to take the right decision.

As an investor, you should know in detail about stock market timings. This varies from country to country as there are different time zones. Currency market or Forex is a 24 hr market whereas the equity market timing is different. The stock market is open from Monday to Friday only and there are other specific days when the stock market remains closed. Unless you know the share market timings like stock market open time and stock market close time, you cannot use your time and money effectively to get better returns from the market.

The share market trading time is between 9.15 AM and 3.30 PM from Monday to Friday. Below are the market timings for equity segment:

A) Pre-open session
Order entry & modification Open: 09:00 hrs

Order entry & modification Close: 09:08 hrs*

*with random closure in last one minute. Pre-open order matching starts immediately after close of pre-open order entry.

B) Share market opening time
Normal / Limited Physical Market Open: 09:15 hrs

Normal / Limited Physical Market Close: 15:30 hrs

Block Deal Session Timings:
Morning Block Deal Window: This window shall operate between 08:45 AM to 09:00 AM.

Afternoon Block Deal Window: This window shall operate between 02:05 PM to 2:20 PM.

C) Share market closing time is between 15.40 hrs and 16.00 hrs
Source: NSE
You can execute all your trades at the right time only when you know share market open and close time. There is great significance in stock market open and close time as this is the time during the day when the price of share moves high or low. Open price is the price of share when the market opens and close price is the price when the market closes. High and low price of share refers to the highest levels and lowest levels the share attains in a day. Though the market closes by 3.30 PM, some brokerages allow you to place trade orders for the next day through AMO (After Market Order) that is even after market hours.

You as an investor should also be aware of stock market holidays so as to cash in on the opportunity in the right time and in the right way. On Diwali, there is a special session called as Muhurat session for trading every year. As mobile trading apps have become very popular these days, you can trade from anywhere without any difficulties. You can simply execute trade orders like buying or selling of shares through your smartphone during the market hours or you can take the help of equity advisors to execute your trade orders.