Importance of Diwali and investment
Investment plays a major part in our lives as it helps in achieving our life goals. Each and everyone of us have to allocate a certain amount of money for the purpose of investment on a regular basis. As the saying, “A penny saved is a penny earned”, savings and investments are very much essential to manage our finances in the proper way. We have always been taught to save for the future since several centuries. Any day is a good day to begin investing but Diwali is considered to be the perfect day to begin anything new as it is a celebration of victory.

Religion and life are intertwined in India and the festivities bring in new vigor and zeal. In Hindu tradition, Goddess Lakshmi along with Ganesha are worshipped on Diwali to attain more wealth and prosperity. People buy gold on Diwali as a mark of tradition and culture. As a novice in the stock market, it is important for you to know some of the essential terms like muhurat trading. Some occasions are considered to be very good for the purpose of investment. You can invest in Gold ETF on Diwali for a bright and prosperous future. People have a general belief that Muhurat trading brings in lots of profit as they expect Sensex to have a bullish trend on account of Diwali. Usually, the sentiment is good and the markets are high but there have been times when the markets suffered loss during Diwali. So you have to stay cautious. We will learn what is muhurat trading in this article.

The trading and business community considers Diwali to be a very auspicious occasion. Diwali, the festival of lights is celebrated with much fanfare. This festival implies that good conquers evil and also brings in vibrancy to everyone’s life.

What is Diwali Muhurat trading?
Diwali marks the beginning of new accounting year and the business world welcomes it by celebrating in the grandest manner. Companies small or big, business houses, temples, offices, and homes are decorated with colourful lights, diyas and flowers. So how does the stock market celebrate Diwali? Stock exchanges announce diwali muhurat trading time every year.

Muhurat is the auspicious time to carry out any good thing and the stock exchanges dedicate around 1 hour every year on Diwali for trading purpose. Muhurat trading has been in practice since many years. Diwali brings in a lot of positive vibrations and prosperity. As Diwali signifies the birth of Goddess Lakshmi, people generally believe that investing in this day will bring in good fortune and hence even the stock exchanges announce muhurat trading timings on diwali. So Muhurat trading hours in this year is as follows:

Pre-open session: 5.15 pm -5.23 pm
Continuous trading: 5.30 pm -6.30 pm
Post closing: 6.40 pm – 6.50 pm

Why Muhurat trading?
Lakshmi, the Goddess of wealth is worshipped on this day by performing special puja. The financial world gears up to get the blessings of Goddess Lakshmi on this special day. Stock market diwali muhurat trading has a great significance among investors. Some investors buy stocks especially for their children on Diwali and hold them forever without selling them as a part of sentiment and tradition.

The new accounting year Samvat 2075 begins on Diwali. Many first time investors buy stocks on this particular day. It’s a very special day for the stock market, the brokers, investors and traders as there is so much sentiment and beliefs associated with Diwali and investments.

Muhurat trading is observed by the stock exchanges on Diwali. Stock market muhurat trading time is the best time to invest in the stock market either in stocks or gold. People believe that at this particular time muhurat, the planets are aligned in such a way that all the evil forces are destroyed and good prevails over evil.

Many stock brokerages have come out with muhurat trading stocks. You can refer those reports and do your own research as well to buy the best stocks on muhurat trading 2018. People always associate Muhurat trading with good fortune. This is the best time to have a wonderful investment journey. What is stopping you? Let this Diwali bring in lots of possibilities your way to make more wealth. Invest in stock markets now!