1. Bullish Strategy: Long Call
Strategy	:	Buy Call option
Risk	:	Limited to Premium
Return	:	Unlimited
Break-even	:	Strike Price + Premium
Profit	:	when price moves up and option is exercised
Loss	:	when price moves down and option expired unexercised

2. Bullish Strategy: Short Put
Strategy	:	Sell Put option
Risk	:	Unlimited
Return	:	Limited to Premium
Break-even	:	Strike price – Premium
Profit	:	when price does not go down and option expires unexercised
Loss	:	when price goes down and option is exercised

3. Bearish View: Long Put
Strategy	:	Buy Put option
Risk	:	Limited to Premium
Return	:	Unlimited
Break-even	:	Strike Price - Premium
Profit	:	when price moves down and option is exercised
Loss	:	when price moves up and option expired unexercised

4. Bearish View: Short Call
Strategy	:	Sell Call option
Risk	:	Unlimited
Return	:	Limited to Premium
Break-even	:	Strike price + Premium
Profit	:	when price goes down and option remain unexercised
Loss	:	when price goes up and option is exercised

5. Bullish Strategy: Bull-Call Spread
View	:	Moderately Bullish
Strategy	:	Buying ITM Call and Selling OTM Call
Risk	:	Limited to net premium paid
Return	:	Limited to difference between the two strike prices – net premium paid
Break-even	:	Strike price of purchased Call + Net premium paid
Max Profit	:	when both options are exercised
Max Loss	:	Both options remain unexercised

6. Bearish Strategy: Bear-Put Spread
View	:	Moderately Bearish
Strategy	:	Buy ITM Put and Sell OTM Put
Risk	:	Limited to net premium paid
Reward	:	Limited to difference between the two strike prices – net premium paid
Break-even	:	Strike price of long Put- net premium paid
Profit	:	when price goes down and both options are exercised
Max Loss	:	when price goes up and both options remain unexercised.

7. Bullish Strategy: Synthetic Call/Protective Put
View	:	conservatively bullish on underlying
Strategy	:	Buy futures and buy put option to protect against unexpected fall in price.
Risk	:	Limited to futures price + Put premium – Put Strike price
Return	:	Unlimited
Break-even	:	Futures Price + Put Premium
Profit	:	when the price of underlying goes up
Max Loss	:	when the price goes down and option is exercised

8. Bearish Strategy: Synthetic Long Put/Protective Call
View	:	Bearish but keep position protected against unexpected rise
Strategy	:	Sell Futures and buy call option
Risk	:	Limited to Call strike price – Futures Price + Premium
Return	:	Unlimited
Break-even	:	Futures Price – Call Premium
Profit	:	when price goes down and option is not exercised
Max Loss	:	when price goes up and option is exercised

9. Bullish Strategy: Covered Call with Futures
View	:	Moderately Bullish on existing long futures
Strategy	:	Sell OTM Call option to earn premium
Risk	:	Unlimited if price falls while return to the extent of premium
Return	:	Limited to strike price – Futures price paid + Premium received
Break-even	:	Futures price paid – Premium received
Max Profit	:	when price goes up and option is exercised
Loss	:	when price goes down

10. Bearish Strategy: Covered Put
View	:	Neutral to Bearish
Strategy	:	Sell futures, sell OTM Put option to earn premium
Risk	:	Unlimited
Reward	:	Futures price – Strike price + Put premium
Break-even	:	Futures price + Premium received
Max-Profit	:	when price goes down and option is exercised
Max Loss	:	when price goes up and option is not exercised

11. Bullish Strategy: Collar
View	:	Conservatively Bullish
Strategy	:	Buy Futures and Buy Put to protect downside,
Sell Call option to partly finance Put premium
Risk	:	Limited
Reward	:	Limited
Break-even	:	Purchase price of Futures – Call Premium + Put Premium
Max Profit	:	when price goes up and call option is exercised
Max Loss	:	when price goes down and Put option is exercised

12. Bullish View: Long Combo
View	:	Bullish
Strategy	:	Sell OTM Put and but OTM Call Option
Risk	:	Unlimited
Return	:	Unlimited
Break-even	:	Call Strike Price + Net Premium
Profit	:	when price goes up and call option is exercised
Loss	:	when price goes down and put option is exercised

13. Neutral Strategy: Long Strangle
View	:	The underlying will experience significant volatility
Strategy	:	Buy slight OTM Call and OTM Put options
Risk	:	Limited to premium paid
Return	:	Unlimited
Break-even	:	Upper BEP = Strike Price of Call + Net Premium
Lower BEP = Strike Price of Put – Net Premium
Max Profit	:	when one of the options is exercised
Max Loss	:	when one of the options not exercised

14. Neutral Strategy: Short Strangle
View	:	The underlying will exerperience very little volatility
Strategy	:	Sell OTM Call and OTM Put options
Risk	:	Unlimited
Return	:	Limited to premium received
Break-even	:	Upper BEP = Strike Price of Call + Net Premium
Lower BEP = Strike Price of Put – Net Premium
Max Profit	:	both the options are not exercised
Loss	:	when one of the options is exercised

15. Neutral Strategy: Long Stradle
View	:	The underlying will experience significant volatility
Strategy	:	Buy Call and buy Put Option of same strike price
Risk	:	Limited to premium paid
Return	:	Unlimited
Break-even	:	Upper BEP = Strike Price of long Call + Net Premium
Lower BEP = Strike Price of long Put – Net Premium
Max Profit	:	when one of the options is exercised
Max Loss	:	when one of the options not exercised

16. Neutral Strategy: Short Stradle
View	:	The underlying will exerperience very little volatility
Strategy	:	Sell Call and Sell Put of same strike price
Risk	:	Unlimited
Return	:	Limited to premium received
Break-even	:	Upper BEP = Strike Price of short Call + Net Premium
Lower BEP = Strike Price of short Put – Net Premium
Max Profit	:	when both the options are not exercised
Loss	:	one of the options is exercised

17. Neutral Strategy: Long Call Butterfly
View	:	Neutral on direction and bearish on volatility
Strategy	:	Buy one ITM Call and one OTM Call and sell to ATM Call
Risk	:	Limited to premium paid
Return	:	Limited to difference between adjacent strikes – Net Premium
Break-even	:	Upper BEP = Higher Strike Price – Net Premium
Lower BEP = Lower Strike Price + Net Premium
Profit	:	when ITM call is exercised and other options are not exercised
Max Loss	:	when all options are exercised or Call option is not exercised

18. Neutral Strategy: Short Butterfly
View	:	Neutral on direction and bullish on volatility
Strategy	:	Sell one ITM Call and one OTM Call and buy two ATM Call
Risk	:	Limited to difference between adjacent strikes – Net premium received
Return	:	Limited to net premium received
Break-even	:	Upper BEP = Higher Strike Price – Net Premium
Lower BEP = Lower Strike Price + Net Premium
Max Profit	:	when all options exercised or all options not exercised
Loss	:	when ITM Call exercised and other options not exercised.
